Doc Reorg: Key Concepts (Draft 2) (#2054)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/concepts.rst

> -----------------------------

Reviewer: **Key Concepts**

Key concept. Developer jargon. 10-cent words that sound like a technical writer patting himself on the back. (Hi there!) We imagine your cursor subconsciously drifting its way to the hyperlink for the next chapter already. BUT in an effort to give you the tools to build and test customized features with CumulusCI, it’s only right that we demystify the process by explaining the _how_ and the _why_ in order to help you achieve your goal of seamless automation.

Don’t worry, we’ll make this as painless as possible.

> -----------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Key Concepts**

Key concept. Developer jargon. 10-cent words that sound like a technical writer patting himself on the back. (Hi there!) We imagine your cursor subconsciously drifting its way to the hyperlink for the next chapter already. BUT in an effort to give you the tools to build and test customized features with CumulusCI, it’s only right that we demystify the process by explaining the _how_ and the _why_ in order to help you achieve your goal of seamless automation.

Don’t worry, we’ll make this as painless as possible.
```

> CumulusCI extends the concepts of the `Org Development Model <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/modules/org-development-model>`_ and the `Package Development Model <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/modules/sfdx_dev_model>`_ to form a new model, which we call the Product Delivery Model.

Reviewer 2: I suggest covering the product delivery model in the Introduction instead. Then that leaves the remaining content all about structural stuff--projects, orgs and services, tasks, and flows. Those all fit together nicely. I'm commenting on the product deliver model sections only. Leaving the rest of the review to Justin.

Reviewer: Still wrapping my head around Product Delivery Model, and where it might fit in with the manual. It _does_ pair well with Introduction . . . but it's also such a big topic that we'd need to be cautious about deterring people from skipping over Key Concepts after getting a deep dive in PDM and its relationship to NPSP.

> CumulusCI extends the concepts of the `Org Development Model <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/modules/org-development-model>`_ and the `Package Development Model <https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/content/learn/modules/sfdx_dev_model>`_ to form a new model, which we call the Product Delivery Model.

Reviewer: "CCI is good for moving parts at scale. It allows for multiple tiers/branches of dev and prod testing."

The Product Delivery Model focuses on the customer experience, not on the technical artifacts you're delivering, and focuses on making it possible to deliver a first-class, fully configured customer experience – no matter how complex the product might be. When building a product, there can be detailed technical considerations for whether a specific component is best distributed within a package, as additional unpackaged metadata, or as sophisticated setup automation that runs before or after a package is installed. And, of course, a product may include not one, but several packages, which must be installed in sequence. CumulusCI makes it possible to deliver a cohesive product that makes use of these different techniques.

> CumulusCI automation, which makes it easy to create products that span multiple package repositories and include complex setup operations, is how we implement the Product Delivery Model throughout the development lifecycle. We also use MetaDeploy and other applications in the CumulusCI Suite to harness CumulusCI automation as we deliver products directly to customers.

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like:

```suggestion
CumulusCI provides the core framework of operations for automating the Product Delivery Model throughout the development lifecycle, and a command line interface to those operations. Once configured, the same automation can also be used by other applications in the CumulusCI Suite, such as MetaCI for automated testing and MetaDeploy for delivering products to customers.
```

> CumulusCI provides the core framework of operations for automating the Product Delivery Model throughout the development lifecycle, and a command line interface to those operations. Once configured, the same automation can also be used by other applications in the CumulusCI Suite, such as MetaCI for automated testing and MetaDeploy for delivering products to customers.

Reviewer 2: I love that you worked in MetaCI and MetaDeploy. We have to at least mention the other products in the suite even if we don't say any more in this doc set.

Salesforce.org delivers NPSP using CumulusCI and the Product Delivery Model because those tools are what make it possible for us to ship this large, complex, heterogeneous application efficiently to tens of thousands of customers — without a lengthy setup guide to be completed by the end user. CumulusCI automation seamlessly

* deploys NPSP's five dependent managed packages in the right sequence;
* delivers unpackaged Record Types for the Account and Opportunity objects;
* installs NPSP;
* and performs final configuration to make the customer's experience better, like setting up Global Actions and delivering translations.

CumulusCI runs this automation throughout our development lifecycle, starting from feature branches in the hands of our developers and culminating in the delivery of new versions of the application to our users through MetaDeploy.

Throughout the CumulusCI documentation, we'll have the Product Delivery Model in mind. 

> 

Reviewer: Before we tackle Projects, I think it's an opportune time to do a thorough retread of MANAGED and UNMANAGED PACKAGES. These are what draw users to CumulusCI in the first place, so let's nail that point home.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Packages**

If you’ve come this far in your search for automation, we’re guessing you’re familiar with packages as well as their role in customizing a Salesforce org. However, because most everything that is built in CumulusCI is deployed via packages, it’s essential to clarify once more:

A **package** is a container for something as small as an individual component or as large as a set of related apps. After creating a package, you can distribute it to other Salesforce users and organizations, including those outside your company.

**Unmanaged packages** are typically used to distribute open-source (non-proprietary) features or application templates to provide developers with the basic building blocks for an application. Once the components are installed from an unmanaged package into a specific org, it’s what’s known as an org implementation. These freshly installed components can be edited as seen fit by the owners of this implementation. The developer who created and uploaded the unmanaged package has no control over the installed components, and can't change or upgrade them.
 
**Managed packages** are typically used by Salesforce partners to distribute and sell applications to customers. They are proprietary code (apps?) that can only be upgraded and deployed by the developer that built them. To ensure seamless upgrades, certain destructive changes, like removing objects or fields, cannot be performed.

Packages are also built, stored and deployed via a **project**.
```

> CumulusCI runs this automation throughout our development lifecycle, starting from feature branches in the hands of our developers and culminating in the delivery of new versions of the application to our users, including through MetaDeploy — which runs the very same automation we use internally to set up and configure a customer org.

Reviewer 3: I might take out the part starting with "including through MetaDeploy", especially if you accept my suggestion above which has a similar nod to it.

> 

Reviewer: Need to delineate the differences between product, project and package. Also, stress the importance of version control because this above all things is what separates CumulusCI from Salesforce and SalesforceDX, which in turn leads us to emphasize on automation and its importance to this framework (and how it ultimately saves a lot of time for client).

> When you work with CumulusCI, you do so inside a project. A project is a version control repository that contains Salesforce metadata as well as the CumulusCI automation that builds and releases the project. A project usually has a one-to-one relationship with a managed package, if building a package, or with an org implementation. A project may constitute the entirety of a product in the Product Delivery Model, or may be one of multiple projects making up a product.

Reviewer: Vital to discuss:

1) A concern with focusing on the word project is that when we talk CumulusCI, particularly in the trailheads, we most often discuss packages. Here it sounds like Project is the feted term for what gets deployed . . . but should that be the case? Would it be better to keep package front and center for our terminology? ("A package cannot be deployed without being nested inside a project, which contains SF metadata as well as CCI automation... A project does not need a package, but a project itself is what allows packages to be deployed. It's the elves cobbling away at night for the shoemaker. It's the magic inside the toaster that turns bread into toast.")

2.) Parker and Reed established that a version control repository shouldn't need much explanation to the intended audience, but at some point we need to mention that GitHub _is_ currently the best (only?) version control repository for CCI. (Perhaps "Getting Started"?)

3. Org implementation ("an unmanaged/unlocked package that goes into a specific org; not for universal application (non-proprietary)") needs more detail because I imagine most people using CumulusCI will require the use of at least one per project.

> When you work with CumulusCI, you do so inside a project. A project is a version control repository that contains Salesforce metadata as well as the CumulusCI automation that builds and releases the project. A project usually has a one-to-one relationship with a managed package, if building a package, or with an org implementation. A project may constitute the entirety of a product in the Product Delivery Model, or may be one of multiple projects making up a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you work with CumulusCI, you do so inside a project. A project is an individual git repository (think GitHub) that contains Salesforce metadata as well as the CumulusCI automation (e.g., tasks and flows) that builds and releases the project. Most importantly, a project can build one — and only one(!) — package in its repository. This one-to-one relationship between project and package is what allows version control to track any changes your team made to the repository with minimal collision.

It’s important to note that a project may not even contain a package; for example, it can be built to deliver functionality to records, or test data for QA. A project may constitute the entirety of a product made for release, or may be one of multiple projects banded together to make a product (think NPSP). Basically, whatever feature in your product that needs specialized Salesforce metadata and CumulusCI automation in order to be built and deployed, _especially_ packages (we cannot stress this enough!), requires its own unique project. 
```

CumulusCI scopes many of its activities to the project, so you'll always run your CumulusCI commands inside your repository directory. Each project gets its own keychain, which we'll talk about in detail below. Each project has its own set of scratch orgs, which CumulusCI namespaces in the Salesforce CLI keychain to prevent collisions. And each project is linked to a single GitHub repository, so you can always be confident of the scope of the actions you're taking.

CumulusCI knows which project you are working on by the current working directory of your shell. Make sure to change directories inside your project before you run project-specific commands.

In order to be used as a CumulusCI project, a directory must both be a Git repository and contain a ``cumulusci.yml`` configuration file. We'll show you how to get set up with a new or existing CumulusCI project in the (TODO link) Get Started section.

Project Structure
-----------------

> A CumulusCI project represents an application or a major component of an application on the Salesforce platform. Each project corresponds with a single managed package, or with an org-based implementation. In this documentation, we'll often speak about a package; if you're building a project that isn't packaged, please take this to refer to an unmanaged package within which your implementation is deployed.

Reviewer: Per David Reed, we will need to revisit this entire intro to Project Structure; too much jargon, not enough insight.

In a CumulusCI project, all unpackaged metadata is stored in subdirectories within the ``unpackaged`` directory. Unpackaged metadata plays multiple roles within the Product Delivery Model, including preparing an org for installing packages, adding more customization after the package or application is deployed, and customizing specific orgs that are used in the product's development process.

Learn more about managing unpackaged metadata in TODO: link Managing unpackaged configuration.

Project Orgs & Services
-----------------------

Orgs and services are external, authenticated resources that each project uses. CumulusCI makes it easy to connect orgs, as well as services like a GitHub account or a MetaDeploy instance, to a single project or to use them across projects. 

Orgs
^^^^

Each project has its own set of orgs, including active scratch orgs, persistent orgs like a production or packaging org, and predefined scratch org configurations. CumulusCI securely stores org authentication information in its keychain, making it easy to access connected orgs at any time. The ``cci org list`` command shows all of the orgs connected to a project.

> In most situations, orgs are connected only to a single project. However, CumulusCI also offers a global keychain, making it possible to share persistent orgs across multiple projects.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph is true, but it's an advanced use case that can probably wait for the section on orgs.

Author: True. I included it to align with the reference to the global keychain in the Services section - both at least allude to the existence of both project-local and global keychains.

Author: I buy that. Change made.

When you work with CumulusCI, you do so inside a project. A project is a version control repository that contains Salesforce metadata as well as the CumulusCI automation that builds and releases the project. A project usually has a one-to-one relationship with a managed package, if building a package, or with an org implementation. A project may constitute the entirety of a product in the Product Delivery Model, or may be one of multiple projects making up a product.

> CumulusCI scopes many of its activities to the project, so you'll always run your CumulusCI commands inside your repository directory. Each project gets its own keychain, which we'll talk about in detail below. Each project has its own set of scratch orgs, which CumulusCI namespaces in the Salesforce CLI keychain to prevent collisions. And each project is linked to a single GitHub repository, so you can always be confident of the scope of the actions you're taking.

Reviewer 3: This might also work well as a bulleted list?

Author: I think I prefer it as prose. Do you have a strong preference?

Reviewer 3: Nah

CumulusCI knows which project you are working on by the current working directory of your shell. Make sure to change directories inside your project before you run project-specific commands.

> In order to be used as a CumulusCI project, a directory must both be a Git repository and contain a ``cumulusci.yml`` configuration file.

Reviewer 3: Add something like "We'll show you how to get set up with a new or existing CumulusCI project in the (link) Get Started section"
